Using optimizations for faster data processing including Atomics, SIMD and GC

1. Atomics are a lock-free mechanism that allows threads to perform operations on shared data with the overhead of locks. Each thread continuosly attempts to update the shared value untill successful, this has better performance than locking when the shared resource has low contention. There are two types of locking mechanisms. Spin Locks use "busy waiting" where threads stay active and repeatedly check if the lock is available, meaning they consume CPU cycles. Spin-Free Locks, like mutexes, suspend the waiting threads meaning it does not consume CPU cycles, this approach leads to higher latency as threads must be woken up needed.

2. SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) allow for hardware level parallelism using vectorized instructions, this gives wider registers allowing you to procss multiple pieces of data simltaneosly with one instruction. This reduces the number of instructions in a program and improves CPU utilization.

3. Garabage Collection is the process of deallocating memory, in Go the GC runs in the background on a sperate thread meaning it runs concurrently with program execution. GC's make a object graph of the objects and pointers in the program, then it starts at the roots (local and global variable) to identify and mark the "live" memory this process is refered to as scanning. The Go GC uses a mark-sweep algorithm where it goes and makes all non marked memory available for allocation, this is called sweeping, this cannot occur till all memory has been traced. This process can result in latencies on requests meaning optimizations can be used to improve performance, Go allows you to customize GC settings using GOGC and GOMAXPROCS. Decreasing the frequency of GC may lead to latency improvements and reusing/limiting the memory on the heap can lead to significant improvements.

